---
title: "An Empirical Study on Deep Neural Network Models for Chinese Dialogue Generation"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020_symmetry_dialogue
excerpt: ''
date: 2020-10-23
author: <b>Zhe Li</b>*, <b>Mieradilijiang Maimaiti</b>*, Jiabao Sheng, Zunwang Ke, Wushour Slamu, Qinyong Wang, Xiuhong Li
conference: In Symmetry-Basel <b>(Symmetry, 2020)</b> (*=equal contribution)
venue: ''
paperurl: 'https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/cd0b/5a2c32e881bed14935025d5f0a34fecbf4cc.pdf?_ga=2.165090492.2098448433.1624278785-661854895.1624278785'
citation: '<br>
@article{Li2020AnES,<br>
  title={An Empirical Study on Deep Neural Network Models for Chinese Dialogue Generation},<br>
  author={Zhe Li and M. Maimaiti and Jiabao Sheng and Zunwang Ke and Wushour Silamu and Qinyong Wang and Xiuhong Li},<br>
  journal={Symmetry},<br>
  year={2020},<br>
  volume={12},<br>
  pages={1756}<br>
}'


---
<h2><strong>Abstract</strong></h2>
The task of dialogue generation has attracted increasing attention due to its diverse
downstream applications, such as question-answering systems and chatbots. Recently, the deep
neural network (DNN)-based dialogue generation models have achieved superior performance
against conventional models utilizing statistical machine learning methods. However, despite that
an enormous number of state-of-the-art DNN-based models have been proposed, there lacks
detailed empirical comparative analysis for them on the open Chinese corpus. As a result, relevant
researchers and engineers might find it hard to get an intuitive understanding of the current research
progress. To address this challenge, we conducted an empirical study for state-of-the-art DNN-based
dialogue generation models in various Chinese corpora. Specifically, extensive experiments were
performed on several well-known single-turn and multi-turn dialogue corpora, including KdConv,
Weibo, and Douban, to evaluate a wide range of dialogue generation models that are based on
the symmetrical architecture of Seq2Seq, RNNSearch, transformer, generative adversarial nets,
and reinforcement learning respectively. Moreover, we paid special attention to the prevalent
pre-trained model for the quality of dialogue generation. Their performances were evaluated by four
widely-used metrics in this area: BLEU, pseudo, distinct, and rouge. Finally, we report a case study
to show example responses generated by these models separately.

\[[PDF](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/cd0b/5a2c32e881bed14935025d5f0a34fecbf4cc.pdf?_ga=2.165090492.2098448433.1624278785-661854895.1624278785)\]  
